# Assessment for Discrete Structures (CMPSC 102)

## Assessment Details

+ **Assessment Released**: At the start of your class session: 1:30pm, 25 April 2025
+ **Assessment Due**: At the end of your class session: 2:20pm, 25 April 2025

**Please note that your `git push` access to the GitHub repository containing
the assessment will be disabled after the assessment's due date.**

## Instructions

+ **Closed Book**: Please do not refer to the course notes, the course textbook, or other online resources.
+ Clone this repository to your computer where you will be able to work and run the code.
+ In the `scr/` directory, you will find partially completed Python programs in which you are to address several ToDo's in the code. Please follow these important comments to complete the program.  
+ The final version of the each Python source code file must be in your GitHub repository by the deadline.
+ You may run the provided Python program on your laptop by using the `python` command.
+ Please complete your work on-time. Unless you already made special arrangements with the instructor, no late work will be accepted.
+ **Important**: Please do not change the print statements that display the output.
+ _GitHub Actions_ is active and will check for correctly functioning programs.
+ Once you have _accepted_ the activity you will get a checkmark grade. Please note that poor performance will not damage your grade.

## Honor Code

**IMPORTANT**: All students in this course are obligated to adhere to the
Allegheny College Honor Code throughout the completion of this assessment. If
the instructor detects that a student has committed a likely violation of the
Allegheny College Honor Code, then s/he will file a report with the Dean of
Students Office and furnish all details of the likely violation. Please be sure
to be familiar with the the [Allegheny College Honor Code](https://sites.allegheny.edu/about/honor-code/) before you start to take this assessment.

+ You **must** adhere to the Honor Code throughout your completion of the assessment
+ You **must** answer all of the questions in the assessment using your own source code and documentation
+ You **must** use your laptop computer and the web-based GitHub Codespaces development environment
+ You **may** use any software development tools that are available to you through GitHub Codespaces
+ You **may** use any automated code and/or documentation generation tools to which you have access
+ You **must** cite the source of any program code or documentation generated by any software tool
+ You **may not** refer to the Python source code that you wrote during the semester
+ You **may not** refer to the technical writing that you completed during the semester
+ You **may not** refer to your course notes, the course textbook or web site, or any online documentation
+ You **may not** discuss any aspect of the assessment with anyone except the course instructor
+ You **may not** modify any part of the provided source code in the `evalugator/` directory

## Learning Objectives for the **CMPSC 102** Course

1. Justify the decision to select a suitable discrete structure for use when solving a problem with a computer program.
2. Connect mathematical definitions, notations, and concepts of discrete structures to their computational representation by writing correct and efficient Python programs.
3. Use the computational constructs of the Python programming language to perform mathematical operations.
4. Correctly describe the properties of a given discrete structure and verify those properties through computational testing and/or mathematical proofs.
5. Implement, test, and evaluate a Python function that performs data analysis using one or more sets of textual, numerical, categorical, binary, or combined data.
